CASE STUDY 1: TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT Transport Department, Government...
CASE STUDY 1: TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT

Transport Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh is providing various services to citizens of the state. Each district of a state having two or three RTO (Regional transport offices) will be available. These offices are headed by RTO (Regional Transport Officer). Each office contains various type of designated employees work under him. They will look after the following services. 

New License: The citizens who have a minimum age of 18 years may approach to respective RTO based on address for getting license to drive a vehicle. They need to produce various documents like Photo identity and address proof for applying new license. Aadhar card number is mandatory for getting license. Initially the RTO will provide learner license for period of 30 days. There are two types of license will be provided.  For non transport vehicles (two wheeler, four wheeler), transport vehicles (three wheeler, four wheeler, heavy vehicles etc). During these days the person can learn driving and traffic rules. RTO will be conducted driving test and online test and it will be monitored by officer. After passing tests person will get valid license for a particular duration based on the age. The license contains license number, name, father name/husband name, address, issue date, issued authority, type of license, validity, date of birth, blood group will be recorded. The rules will be changed time to time.  

Renewal of license: Renewal of license will be done from one month before of expiry date and upto 15 days of expiry.   He/She needs to follow the same rules and regulations stated in the above paragraph.  

Vehicle registration: The RTO is offering another service for registration of new vehicles at dealer's location. No need to rush to RTO office for vehicle registration. Initially, the dealer will register organization details (Dealership name, authorized to sell what class of vehicles, dealer license, address, duration of license) at transport office for registering new vehicles. The dealer will verify the details of the customer; collect all documents (address, identity proof and aadhar card is compulsory), required road tax for registering new vehicles without visiting RTO office. There will be a new rule also imposing against citizens, those who are having one vehicle with his/her name, he/she needs to apply additional tax to the Government. After registration of the vehicle Regd No, Owner Name, father/husband name, address, class of vehicle, manufacturing date, fuel used, type of body, chasis number, engine number, date of registration, valid upto, tax paid etc).

Contract permits: The RTO will provide contract permits for transport vehicles from one place to another place. The owner of a transport vehicle needs to apply for contract permit for a specific number of days. The owner needs to pay amount per seat. All the transport vehicles need to apply for fitness test.  During this test the RTO will verify entire vehicle, if the vehicle is suitable for transport they will give fitness certificate. 

Educational Institution: RTO will provide permit for vehicles of educational institutions. They needs to pay fewer amounts for fitness compared to contract vehicles and it is valid to one academic year. These vehicles will be permitted to carry students from their house to education institution. These vehicles may not permit for other purposes. 

Violation of any of the transport rules, the vehicle owner/driver will be imposed a fine/any other punishment as per the government rules. 